This document is going to focus on boundaries in the US. There
is potential for the project to expand, but the initial project
is US-centric.

Administrative and other types of boundaries in OpenStreetMap
can be valuable resources for geocoders like Pelias, but they
have many problems in their current form. First of all, the
initial import processes were haphazard and poorly coordinated.
The result is that the first borders imported were derived from
USGS data that wasn't particularly accurate, and then followup
data was imported from Census Bureau data that was better. The
lack of coordination, though, resulted in border renderings that
looked like hash where USGS and Census Bureau data was close
but not the same (the borders on the Hudson River between
Glens Falls and NYC used to be a terrible mess.)

On top of that, much hand editing occurred of borders, both
on purpose and accidentially, that didn't help things much.
What follows is a typical accidential editing scenario:

    Since the initial road centerlines also came from the Census
    Bureau's TIGER database, in cases where the road centerlines
    matched up with Census Bureau orders, usually the nodes on the
    road centerlines were at the same coordinates as nodes on the
    borders, and in cases where the road centerline crossed a
    border there would typically be a node. In the early days of
    OSM, there were de-duplication bots running around that were
    "helpfully" merging untagged nodes at the same lat/long. After
    that, from time to time mappers trying to fix data would fix
    a road or a border without realizing that they were also editing
    some thing else. Sometimes this was ok, but often it was not.

    When might this not be ok? In the road-crossing-border scenario,
    fixing a road might drag the border out of line, and fixing the
    border might drag a border out of line. In the road and border
    share nodes scenario, it's less clear. If the road is defined
    as the legal boundary (which does happen) then fixing the road
    and accidentially improving the border can be ok. But if, for
    example, the local DOT significantly changes the routing of a
    road, the legal border does not necessarily move to follow the
    new road alignment.

The intentional editing scenarios that can cause problems are
numerous and varied. Here are some examples relating to cases
where waterways (rivers and streams) are also legal boundaries.

    Frequently borders are defined with respect to rivers,
    lakes and streams. Quite a lot of our data about waterways
    in the US comes from the NHD (National Hydrography Dataset)
    which comes from the USGS. Interestingly enough, the old
    State and County borders from the USGS rarely if ever follow
    the NHD data very closely, which leads problems both with
    ugly map rendering and inaccuracies for geocoders (the
    Census Bureau borders generally seem to be much better
    about tracking waterways, at least in the case of the fully
    detailed borders from shapefiles; the simplified data in
    the ArcGIS extracts is over simplified and not as good.)

    So in some cases mappers have intentionally tweaked borders
    to match up with waterways. This is not necessarily a bad
    thing to do, but it is often done without considering the
    context and impact it will have on the map.

    For example, some years ago a mapper modified part of the
    USGS derived border between Pennsylvania and New York along
    the Delaware River to use a previously imported NHD centerline
    instead of the admittedly mediocre USGS state border. This
    did produce a more accurate border - for the section where
    the work was done. Unfortunately the mapper lacked the
    courage of his convictions and didn't do the entire length
    where the border followed the Delaware. On top of this,
    a subsequent import of boundaries from the Census Bureau
    for cities, villages and CDPs wasn't coordinated at all with
    the prior import, and the result was what I'll call border
    hash. I subsequently cleaned this up by importing newer,
    more accurate Census Bureau data and aligning all the borders
    to use it. The resulting border doesn't share the NHD river
    centerline, but it does fall within the river and the hash
    effect is gone.

Bitrot and Updates

It is common with OSM imports to overlook the problem of keeping
data up to date. There is no standard method for updates of TIGER
road centerline data that has changed since 2007, nor is there
any method for updates of the border data that was imported in
2008. As it happens, this is a very big problem, because the
Census Bureau has been engaged in a long term project to substantially
improve the data and some of it has changed quite a bit.

For boundaries this is mostly noticeable in the borders for
places (cities, villages & cdps). In particular, for the CDPs which
are statistical entities drawn by the Census Bureau themselves,
in some cases they have changed quite a lot since 2008.

Update strategies, though, can be difficult because OSM is a wiki
project. Mappers can work on the boundaries themselves, and when
contemplating an update from Census Bureau sources, there is not
really a sound basis for making a choice between a mapper modified
boundary and an updated boundary from TIGER data (this is really
a variation of the fundamental problem of conflation; it's nearly
impossible to automate and frequently difficult for a person to make
an informed choice.)

